Machine ID GitHub Actions guide (#17798)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/machine-id/guides/github-actions.mdx

---
title: Using Machine ID With Github Actions

> description: A tutorial for using Machinie ID with Github Actions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: A tutorial for using Machine ID with Github Actions
```

---

> Github actions are a popular CI/CD platform that works as a larger part of the Github

Reviewer: I think we should use "GitHub Actions" uniformly across the guide to keep GitHub happy.

ecosystem. Teleport, with the help of Machine ID, allows for Github actions to
securely interact with Teleport Protected resources without the need for long lived
credentials. By ensuring that rotated Machine ID credentials are additionally limited by RBAC,
Github actions with Teleport can be applied as both a viable and secure solution whenever a
CI/CD platform is needed.

> ## Prerequisites

Reviewer: We should mention that their Teleport proxy needs to be accessible from GitHub Actions

> ## Prerequisites

Reviewer: We should mention that for now, we only support GitHub and not self-hosted GitHub enterprise, or self hosted runners.

(!docs/pages/includes/edition-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

> - A Linux based host that can support Machine ID. This "Machine ID Host

Reviewer: I think this host isn't used in the guide.

version: v2
metadata:
  name: github-demo
  expires: "3000-01-01T00:00:00Z"
spec:
  roles: [Bot]
  join_method: github
  bot_name: github-demo
  github:
    allow:
      - repository: gravitational/example
```

Let's go over the token configuration YAML in more detail:

- `metadata.name` and `spec.bot_name` in this case represent the name of the
bot that will be configured with Machine ID. In this case, the bot will be named
`github-demo`, however this can be changed to any name of your choice. Note that this value will
need to be used in other parts of the configuration later.

- `metadata.expires` defines the date that the join token will expire. This example is set
to the year `3000`, however care should be taken in production in order to Ensure
that the expiration date will not be given a value that is greater than what is needed.

- `spec.roles` defines the role for the bot user. The value of `[Bot]` ensures that only bots are
allowed to join the cluster using this token, reducing the scope of privileges.

- `spec.join_method` defines the join method the token is applicable for. Since this guide
only focuses on Github Actions, this value should always be equal to `github`.

> - `spec.github.allow` field is used to set the Github repository that the Github actions will

Reviewer: The allow block actually has several different options other than `repository` and I think we should either list them on this page, or in a reference elsewhere.

```
    // Sub also known as Subject is a string that roughly uniquely indentifies
    // the workload. The format of this varies depending on the type of
    // github action run.
    string Sub = 1 [(gogoproto.jsontag) = "sub,omitempty"];
    // The repository from where the workflow is running.
    // This includes the name of the owner e.g `gravitational/teleport`
    string Repository = 2 [(gogoproto.jsontag) = "repository,omitempty"];
    // The name of the organization in which the repository is stored.
    string RepositoryOwner = 3 [(gogoproto.jsontag) = "repository_owner,omitempty"];
    // The name of the workflow.
    string Workflow = 4 [(gogoproto.jsontag) = "workflow,omitempty"];
    // The name of the environment used by the job.
    string Environment = 5 [(gogoproto.jsontag) = "environment,omitempty"];
    // The personal account that initiated the workflow run.
    string Actor = 6 [(gogoproto.jsontag) = "actor,omitempty"];
    // The git ref that triggered the workflow run.
    string Ref = 7 [(gogoproto.jsontag) = "ref,omitempty"];
    // The type of ref, for example: "branch".
    string RefType = 8 [(gogoproto.jsontag) = "ref_type,omitempty"];
```

Hence I would modify the description to state "`spec.github.allow` is used to set rules for what GitHub Actions will be able to authenticate using this token. In our example, `repository` is set to only allow GitHub Actions running within that repository to authenticate. A full list of options can be found at XYZ"

be applied to. The example `gravitational/example` repo used in this file should be replaced
with your own.

Once the configuration YAML file has been created, apply it to your cluster using `tctl`:

```code
$ tctl create tokenconfig.yaml
```

The token `github-demo` can now be observed with the following command, ready to be used by
Github:

```code

> $ sudo tctl tokens ls

Reviewer: Is there a reason why it's sudo here and not sudo in the previous step ?

in this case `actionstest.yml` that will reflect the action you'd like to configure. This guide will create an action that
will both list nodes within the cluster using `tsh ls`, as well as write the commit SHA that triggered the workflow to
a file within the bot node. To create this configuration, use the following YAML file:

```YAML
# This is a basic workflow to help you get started with Actionsname: Demo.
# Will take the following action whenever a push is made to the "main" branch.
on:
 push:
   branches:
     - main
jobs:
 demo:
   permissions:
# This is required or tbot will not be able to authenticate.
     id-token: write
     contents: read
# The name of the action, and the Linux distro to be used to perform the required steps.
   name: guide-demo
   runs-on: ubuntu-latest
   steps:
     - name: Checkout repository
       uses: actions/checkout@v3
     - name: Fetch Teleport binaries
       uses: gravitational/teleport-actions/setup@main
       with:
         version: 11.0.0
     - name: Fetch credentials
       run: >
         tbot start
         --join-method=github
         --token=github-demo

> # Use the address of the auth server for your own cluster.

Reviewer: We should really lean towards telling people to use the address of their proxy here if possible ! This is more likely to work in more environments.

         --auth-server=authserver.domain:443
         --oneshot

>          --destination-dir=./certs

Reviewer: We should change this destination-dir and data-dir to a directory thats outside of the initial directory, as people will clone stuff in and we don't want this to interfere.

Perhaps `--destination-dir=/opt/machine-id` and `--data-dir=/opt/machine-id-data` ?

         ls
     - name: Write file to remote
# Enters a command from the cluster, in this case "tsh ssh" using Machine ID credentials to gain SSH access to an SSH node, and then write the commit hash to the "github_run_log_2" file.
# Ensure that the domain matches the auth server, that `username` matches the username of a remote SSH username, and that hostname matches an SSH host name that is a part of the Teleport cluster configured for access.
       run: >
         tsh -i ./certs/identity
         --proxy authserver.domain:443
         ssh username@hostname
         "echo $GITHUB_SHA >> ~/github_run_log_2"
```

Add, commit, and push your changes to the `main` branch of the repository.

Navigate to the **Actions** tab of your github repository in a web browser of your choice. Select
the **Workflow** that has now been created and triggered by the change, and select the `guide-demo` job.
The Github action may take some time to complete, however will resemble the following once successful.

![Github Actions](../../../img/machine-id/github-actions.png)

Unfurl the `List nodes` step of the action, and the output will
list all nodes in the cluster, from the perspective of the

> TSH user configured for Machine ID using the command `tsh ls`.

Reviewer: We should include an additional advice section, and include within that the warning that they should aim to do as little within the job including the `tbot` stuff as possible. As all steps within the job have access to the certificates, and hence access to their Teleport cluster, they may want to be careful with running tests or user provided code in the same job.

GitHub Actions with Teleport can be applied as both a viable and secure solution whenever a
CI/CD platform is needed.

<Admonition type="note">
Currently GitHub Actions with Machine ID are unsupported on GitHub Enterprise
or self-hosted runners.
</Admonition>

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/edition-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

- A node that is a part of the Teleport cluster with the SSH service installed.
- A machine with `tsh` access to the cluster.
- A GitHub repository with GitHub Actions enabled. This guide uses the example `gravitational/example`
repo, however this value should be replaced with your own unique repo.

## Step 1/3. Create a join Token for GitHub Actions

GitHub Actions will need it's own join token in order to be able to join the cluster.
Using a text editor of your choice, create a configuration YAML file `tokenconfig.yaml` for the
join token that resembles the following:

```yaml
kind: token
version: v2
metadata:
  name: github-demo
  expires: "3000-01-01T00:00:00Z"
spec:
  roles: [Bot]
  join_method: github
  bot_name: github-demo
  github:
    allow:
      - repository: gravitational/example
```

Let's go over the token configuration YAML in more detail:

> - `metadata.name` and `spec.bot_name` in this case represent the name of the

Reviewer: `metadata.name` represents the name of the token that will be provided in `--token` later. It isn't necessarily the same as the bot name, although, in my own clusters I tend to have them matching unless I'm creating a bot that has multiple associated tokens.

Reviewer 2: I'm thinking we should use a different token name in the config upon further consideration. I think in an example like this it's best for users to be able differentiate where possible, unless there's some specific reason we would want to keep the value the same.

bot that will be configured with Machine ID. In this case, the bot will be named
`github-demo`, however this can be changed to any name of your choice. Note that this value will
need to be used in other parts of the configuration later.
- `metadata.expires` defines the date that the join token will expire. This example is set
to the year `3000`, however care should be taken in production in order to Ensure
that the expiration date will not be given a value that is greater than what is needed.

> - `spec.roles` defines the role for the bot user. The value of `[Bot]` ensures that only bots are

Reviewer 3: is "Bot" a pre-existing role, or something we will make later in the guide? Can we say so here to avoid the question being raised by other readers?

Reviewer: This is a SystemRole so is one from a predefined list - you are right, we should clarify this.

allowed to join the cluster using this token, reducing the scope of privileges.
- `spec.join_method` defines the join method the token is applicable for. Since this guide
only focuses on GitHub Actions, this value should always be equal to `github`.
- `spec.github.allow` is used to set rules for what GitHub Actions will be able to
authenticate by using the token. In this example, the `gravitational/example`
repository is used, and this example repository should be replaced with your own repo.

> Most of the configuration settings used in the example configuration yaml `tokenconfig.yaml`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Most of the configuration settings used in the example configuration file `tokenconfig.yaml`
```

"yaml" as a noun applies to the language, and is used properly in the sentence above the UL. Here the subject of the sentence is a file, and "yaml" would be an adjective (which you could add back in if you want).

Reviewer 3: P.S. If you do add it back in, use uppercase "YAML" to be consistent with other instances.

> do not have any variable settings, however the `allow` block or `spec.github.allow` has additional

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
do not have any variable settings, however the `allow` block of `spec.github.allow` has additional
```

I *think* this is a typo? If not, can you explain what's being said here?

Reviewer 2: definitely a typo, fixing

configuration options to more strictly define the scope of access granted to the token:

| **Setting** | **Behavior** | **Example** |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| `sub` | Defines a subject claim. | `repo:example-org/example-repo:environment:dev` |

> | `repository` | The repository where the actions will run. | `gravitational:example` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `repository` | The repository where the actions will run. | `gravitational/example` |
```

| `repository_owner` | The name of the organization that owns the repository where the actions will run.  | `example-org` |
| `workflow`| The name of the workflow. | `example-workflow` |
| `environment`| The name of the environment where the actions will run. | `dev` |
| `actor` | The account that will perform the actions. | `username` |
| `ref` | The git "ref" or reference that triggers the action. | `refs/heads/example` |
| `ref_type` | The type of "ref" or reference that triggers the action. | `branch` |

Once the configuration YAML file has been created, apply it to your cluster using `tctl`:

```code

> $ tctl create tokenconfig.yaml

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
$ tctl create -f tokenconfig.yaml
```

I think we're looking to include `-f` consistently throughout docs.

```

The token `github-demo` can now be observed with the following command, ready to be used by
GitHub:

```code

> $ tctl tokens ls

Reviewer 3: Can we include example output to compare against?

> $ tctl  tokens ls

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ tctl tokens ls
```

```

## Step 2/3. Creating your Machine ID bot

With the join token for GitHub Actions created, the next step is to create the Machine ID bot,

> and ensure that is configured to use the created token. This bot can be created using a Teleport

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
and ensure that it is configured to use the created token. This bot can be created using a Teleport
```

or

```suggestion
and ensure that it's configured to use the created token. This bot can be created using a Teleport
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
and ensure that is configured to use the newly created token. This bot can be created using a Teleport
```

`configuration.yaml` file, however for the purposes of this guide you will create a simple configuration
using `tctl` with any required configuration flags.

The Machine ID bot created in this example will be used to access a specific node on the cluster
via `tsh ssh`, and will therefore require a role that can access the cluster as needed. This example
configuration will apply the `access` role, however care should be taken to either create or apply

> a role according to the principle of least privelege in production environments. Additionally, it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a role according to the principle of least privilege in production environments. Additionally, it
```

should have explicit access to the cluster using a username created specifically for the bot user alone.

> Enter the following command from your host with `tsh` access, replacing the `username` value with

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Enter the following command from your workstation with `tsh` access, replacing the `username` value with
```

To better differentiate when we're talking about the local computer versus one of possibly several remote hosts.

the username affiliated with a node the bot will be required to access over a `tsh ssh` session:

```
$ tctl bots add github-demo --roles=access --token=github-demo –logins=username
```

## Step 3/3. Configuring GitHub Actions

> Now that the bot has been successfully created, github actions can succesfully function as part of the Teleport cluster.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Now that the bot has been successfully created, GitHub Actions can successfully function as part of the Teleport cluster.
```

Reviewer 3: P.S. the use of "successfully" in succession (say that three times fast) here could sound redundant. Consider removing one. I'd suggest the first instance.

> In the GitHub workflows directory of your repo, generally `/.github/workflows/`, create a new workflow YAML file,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In the GitHub workflows directory of your repo (generally `/.github/workflows/`), create a new workflow YAML file,
```

This may be more of a style/voice thing, but IMHO the use of parens here makes it clearer, since the second comma is doing double-duty for the aside and the main sentence structure.

> In the GitHub workflows directory of your repo, generally `/.github/workflows/`, create a new workflow YAML file,

Reviewer: I'm not sure I like the use of "generally" here - it is always that directory. I'd probably also stylise it as `.github/workflows` without the leading slash (that tends to mean something else to me).

> in this case `actionstest.yml` that will reflect the action you'd like to configure. This guide will create an action that

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
in this case `actionstest.yml`, that will reflect the action you'd like to configure. This guide will create an action that
```

You could also use parens here as discussed one above, but I feel less strongly about it. Too much parens can break reader flow.

will both list nodes within the cluster using `tsh ls`, as well as write the commit SHA that triggered the workflow to
a file within the bot node. To create this configuration, use the following YAML file:

```YAML

> # This is a basic workflow to help you get started with Actionsname: Demo.

Reviewer 3: What is "Actionsname" in this context?

Reviewer 2: This was a template, will be removed

> # Will take the following action whenever a push is made to the "main" branch.

Reviewer 3: Nit: this sentence lacks a subject. But this isn't an essay for English class, so no biggie.

on:
 push:
   branches:
     - main
jobs:
 demo:
   permissions:

> # This is required or tbot will not be able to authenticate.

Reviewer: We should probably clarify that "this" is referring to the `id-token: write`.

     id-token: write
     contents: read
# The name of the action, and the Linux distro to be used to perform the required steps.
   name: guide-demo
   runs-on: ubuntu-latest
   steps:
     - name: Checkout repository
       uses: actions/checkout@v3
     - name: Fetch Teleport binaries
       uses: gravitational/teleport-actions/setup@main
       with:

>          version: 11.0.0

Reviewer: Can we do some magic variable here so this always shows the latest Teleport release 😇

         tbot start
         --join-method=github
         --token=github-demo
# Use the address of the auth/proxy server for your own cluster.
         --auth-server=example.domain:443
         --oneshot
         --destination-dir=/opt/machine-id
         --data-dir=/opt/machine-id-data
     - name: List nodes
# Enters a command from the cluster, in this case "tsh ls" using Machine ID credentials to list remote SSH nodes.
# Ensure that the domain "authserver.domain" matches the auth/proxy server of your own cluster.
       run: >
         tsh -i ./opt/machine-id/identity
         --proxy=example.domain:443
         ls
     - name: Write file to remote
# Enters a command from the cluster, in this case "tsh ssh" using Machine ID credentials to gain SSH access to an SSH node, and then write the commit hash to the "github_run_log_2" file.
# Ensure that the domain matches the auth/proxy server, that `username` matches the username of a remote SSH username, and that hostname matches an SSH host name that is a part of the Teleport cluster configured for access.
       run: >
         tsh -i /opt/machine-id/identity
         --proxy example.domain:443
         ssh username@hostname

>          "echo $GITHUB_SHA >> ~/github_run_log_2"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         "echo $GITHUB_SHA >> ~/github_run_log"
```

The "2" is here is just from my personal setup.

```

Add, commit, and push your changes to the `main` branch of the repository.

> Navigate to the **Actions** tab of your github repository in a web browser of your choice. Select

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Navigate to the **Actions** tab of your GitHub repository in your web browser. Select
```

Just making it a little more succinct (and fixing a GH caps issue I missed earlier).

the **Workflow** that has now been created and triggered by the change, and select the `guide-demo` job.

> The GitHub action may take some time to complete, however will resemble the following once successful.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The GitHub action may take some time to complete, and will resemble the following once successful.
```

Sounds a little more natural to me.

![GitHub Actions](../../../img/machine-id/github-actions.png)

> Unfurl the `List nodes` step of the action, and the output will

Reviewer 3: Take it or leave it, but "expand" could replace "unfurl". Up to you.

Reviewer 2: Your intuition is right here, the element being referenced appears to be an "Expansion Panel", so "expand" would be more technically correct.

- A local workstation with `tsh` access to the cluster.
- A Github repository with Github actions enabled. This guide uses the example `gravitational/example`
repo, however this value should be replaced with your own unique repo.

## Step 1/3. Create a join Token for GitHub Actions

Github Actions will need it's own join token in order to join the cluster.
Using a text editor of your choice, create the configuration YAML file `tokenconfig.yaml` for the
join token that resembles the following:

```yaml
kind: token
version: v2
metadata:
  name: github-token
  expires: "3000-01-01T00:00:00Z"
spec:
  roles: [Bot]
  join_method: github
  bot_name: github-demo
  github:
    allow:
      - repository: gravitational/example
```

Let's go over the token configuration YAML in more detail:

- `metadata.name` defines the name of the token. Note that this value will need to be used in other parts of the configuration later.
- `metadata.expires` defines the date that the join token will expire. This example is set
to the year `3000`, however care should be taken in production in order to Ensure
that the expiration date will not be given a value that is greater than what is needed.

> - `spec.bot_name` represents the name of the bot that will be configured with Machine ID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `spec.bot_name` is the name of the Machine ID bot that this token will grant access to.
```

Note that this value will need to be used in other parts of the configuration later.
- `metadata.expires` defines the date that the join token will expire. This example is set
to the year `3000`, however care should be taken in production in order to Ensure
that the expiration date will not be given a value that is greater than what is needed.
- `spec.roles` defines the role for the bot user. The value of `[Bot]` is a pre-existing role
that ensures that only bots are allowed to join the cluster using this token, reducing the scope of privileges.
- `spec.join_method` defines the join method the token is applicable for. Since this guide
only focuses on GitHub Actions, this value should always be equal to `github`.
- `spec.github.allow` is used to set rules for what GitHub Actions will be able to
authenticate by using the token. In this example, the `gravitational/example`
repository is used, and this example repository should be replaced with your own repo.

Most of the configuration settings used in the example configuration file `tokenconfig.yaml`
do not have any variable settings, however the `allow` block of `spec.github.allow` has additional

> configuration options to more strictly define the scope of access granted to the token:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
configuration options to more strictly define which GitHub actions tokens will be granted access:
```

> | **Setting** | **Behavior** | **Example** |

Reviewer: We should change the tense of the descriptions here I think e.g

"The repository where the action is running."
"The name of the environment the action is running in."
"The account that triggered the GitHub action run."

I think with the future current tense it sounds a bit like you are configuring GitHub Actions rather than configuring a rule for a Github Action that is running.

It's important we nail these descriptions here because I don't think a reference for them exists anywhere else. If you are unsure of one in particular, I will be happy to provide a fuller, clearer explanation of what that value is. 

These are the descriptions provided by GitHub themselves (note that we don't support all of these, but for the ones we do support, we are directly passing the value from the GitHub):
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/16336790/199352174-c7101ea9-0e85-49ad-aba3-b12a5b4d00a3.png)

Reviewer 2: I've cleaned up this section and changed the tense per your recommendations. I've additionally added some links, which I feel are justified given that some of this terminology is not Teleport specific and tied to GitHub concepts. I believe my understanding of the behavior for the allow block options are correct, but I absolutely welcome your technically critical eye here, I'm open to any and all feedback you might have.

| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |

> | `sub` | The subject claim that will trigger the GitHub Actions run. | `repo:example-org/example-repo:environment:development` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `sub` | The subject associated with the GitHub Actions run. | `repo:example-org/example-repo:environment:development` |
```

> | `repository` | The repository where the action will run. | `example-org/example` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `repository` | The repository where the action is running. | `example-org/example` |
```

> | `repository_owner` | The name of the organization that owns the repository where the action will run.  | `example-org` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `repository_owner` | The name of the organization that owns the repository where the action is running.  | `example-org` |
```

> | `workflow`| The name of the [workflow](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-workflows/about-workflows) that will run the job. This references the `name` of a workflow defined within a workflow configuration file, and can be the workflow created in Step 3/3 of this guide. | `guide-demo` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `workflow`| The name of the [workflow](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-workflows/about-workflows) that the running job belongs to. This references the `name` of a workflow defined within a workflow configuration file, and can be the workflow created in Step 3/3 of this guide. | `guide-demo` |
```

> | `environment`| The name of the [environment](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/deployment/targeting-different-environments/using-environments-for-deployment) where the action will run. | `development` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `environment`| The name of the [environment](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/deployment/targeting-different-environments/using-environments-for-deployment) associated with the action run. | `development` |
```

> | `actor` | The GitHub account name that the action will be triggered under. | `username` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `actor` | The GitHub account name that triggered the action run. | `username` |
```

> | `ref` | The git "ref" or [reference](https://docs.github.com/en/rest/git/refs#about-the-git-references-api) that will trigger the action. | `refs/heads/example` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `ref` | The git "ref" or [reference](https://docs.github.com/en/rest/git/refs#about-the-git-references-api) that triggered the action run. | `refs/heads/example` |
```

> | `ref_type` | The **type** of "ref" or reference that will trigger the action. | `branch` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `ref_type` | The **type** of "ref" or reference that triggered the action run. | `branch` |
```
